The proposal aims to understand risk environments in rural regions, and build resilience in these areas through the integration of multiple datasets from various domains. It plans to leverage existing geo-enrichment services such as the NSF-funded KnowWhereGraph and the Resilient Rural America Project for Extreme Weather. The project seeks to expand it's data collection by incorporating datasets from agencies like the CDC, Medicare and Medicaid, the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities, and the Inter-University Consortium for Political and Social Research. 

The process begins with a preparatory phase encompassing data pre-processing, self-evaluation, team formation, and community interaction. This is followed by a data quality evaluation stage, after which, transfer learning and generative techniques will be used to create synthetic data that addresses data gaps and enhances data quality while ensuring privacy. The team then plans to create an ontology related to public health and environmental crises, which will bolster the integrated level of the knowledge graph. 

The final product, a comprehensive knowledge graph, will depict health and justice aspects of determinants, particularly focusing on rural communities impacted by substance abuse crisis. To ensure the integration with existing knowledge graphs, the team will use the S2 Grid System or Discrete Global Grid for the portrayal of spatial regions. Ultimately, multi-scale data synthesis models will be developed, using the knowledge graph and generative techniques, in compliance with the guidelines of the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities. 

In summary, the proposed ontology is designed to serve as an integrated, community-centered approach to understanding and addressing health and justice aspects in rural areas affected by various crises.